# Quadratic Primes
Euler discovered the remarkable quadratic formula:

\begin{align}
n^{2} + n + 41
\end{align}

It turns out that the formula will produce \\(40\\) primes for the consecutive integer values \\(0 \leq n \leq 39\\). 
However, when \\(n = 40, 40^{2} + 40 + 41 = 40(40 + 1) + 41\\) is divisible by \\(41\\), and certainly when
\\(n = 41, 41^{2} + 41 + 41\\) is clearly divisible by \\(41\\).

The incredible formula \\(n^{2} - 79n + 1601\\) was discovered, which produces \\(80\\) primes for the consecutive
values \\(0 \leq n \leq 79\\). The product of the coefficients, \\(-79\\) and \\(1601\\), is \\(-126479\\).

Considering quadratics of the form:

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; \\(n^2 + an + b\\), where \\(|a| < 1000\\) and \\(|b| \leq 1000\\)

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; e.g. \\(|11| = 11\\) and \\(|-4| = 4\\)

Find the product of the coefficients, \\(a\\) and \\(b\\), for the quadratic expression that produces the
maximum number of primes for consecutive values of \\(n\\), starting with \\(n = 0\\) .

# Solution

That's a long problem description for a relatively easy task. It looks daunting, but in reality it's quite simple

We need to find `a` and `b` for which the consecutive values of `n` produce the largest amount of primes.
Because the constraints are relatively low, we don't need to optimize much, a brute-force solution will work just fine.

Oh well, maybe let's just do one! Take a look at the formula here: \\(n^2 + an + b\\)

Try substituting `n` and think if you can spot a certain property of `a` or `b` that can limit what we need to check.

Can you see it? Hint, try: `n = 0`

If the `n = 0`, then we're left with just `b`. It means that if we're looking for consecutive values of primes,
the first prime must be a number when `n = 0`, and in the formula there's just `b`. So, `b` must be a prime!

```scala
{{#include ../../src/main/scala/Euler027.scala}}
```

## Final notes

The solution works relatively fast. If we had longer prime sequences, this part could've been a bit troublesome:
```scala
Iterator.from(0).takeWhile { n =>
  (n * n + n * a + b).naiveIsPrime
}.length
```

As you can see, we check `.length` at the very end, meaning that all the primes are collected to a list. That's
not what we need, right? To keep it clean, one could write a small helper like this one:

```scala
extension[A] (i: Iterator[A]) {
  private def countWhile(f: A => Boolean): Int = {
    var count = 0
    while (i.hasNext && f(i.next())) {
      count += 1
    }
    count
  }
}
```
